Welcome back.
So I have created a very simple form that accepts uploading files.
Allow me show you the code that I created.
So this form has only one input or actually two inputs.
The first input is a file that accepts and that accepts files.
The second input is a button that allows users to click on the button to submit or upload actually that
file.
And here, here the method is passed.
And here I also have the ink type multipart form data.
This is very important.
Whenever you have a an input that allows users to to upload a file, you need to have this attribute
set, which is the ink type.
Finally, the action in the action is the file that's going to handle uploading the image, which is
the same file.
So if it's the same, finally, just need to pass here for a slash.
The second thing that I created is that I created here a folder called uploads and this uploads folder
is going to store any file we allow users to upload.
And I gather this to explain and show you how the process works.
Now let's get to the most important part.
So the most important part here is this good?
This code is very important because this code is going to handle uploading the image or files here.
First we have the target directory.
So the target there actually is uploads for us.
What does this mean?
This means that this directory is going to store whatever file user is uploading.
So whenever a user uploads a file, I'm going to store it in a folder called uploads, which is here.
It must be here.
If you see your uploads, it must be here and you need to here to say uploads for a.
Second.
I have a boolean variable called upload.
Okay.
Which is going to be one or zero one.
It means that the file has been uploaded successfully.
Zero.
It means that it hasn't met.
Upload it.
So initially it's going to be zero and then I'm going to change this to one after the file has been
uploaded.
Now we need to work on the logic, which is very important.
First, we need to check whether the post is by submit is a set or not.
The Post submit is basically this input, which is the button.
If the button has been clicked, then we can move on and upload the image next after the user clicks
on this submit button.
What we want to do is, is that we need to get this get the name of the image.
So in order to give the name of the image, we need to use the base name function and then we need to
pass files.
Picture picture refers to this name to the, to the, to the name of the impact that uploads the image,
the file.
In our case, it's going to be an image.
And then the second, the second problem, the second parameter here is name because they want to give
the name and then I'm appending that to the directory.
So it's going to be this is going to be the directory was upload.
Remember it actually was upload and then slash and then the file name and then the the extension.
So the extension in our case, it's going to be an image.
It could be a pig, for example, or PNG, an image extension.
Next, we want to hear we want to check the file extension.
This is very, very important.
This is a way to check the the file extension.
But but I'm going to be using this this function instead of this linear remove this for now.
I don't need actually, I don't need this.
Let me call this out.
I'm going to call me this out.
And then when I explain how to get the extension here so here in order to get the extension, this is
going to get.
File extension.
So in order to get the file extension, you need to use a function called path info.
And then the first the first parameter is the file name.
So what is the file name?
Remember, the file name is can be can be fetched from the files picture.
This is going to return the file name.
And then the second parameter is a a constant called path input underscore extension.
And then I'm going to store it in the variable and then we can check whether this extension exists or
not.
So I have created here an array that has these extensions.
This array has four extensions, VEGF or give me a P in G GAAP and GAAP.
So these are the only files that the user will allow will be allowed to upload.
So if user let me out of here a comment if user plots.
File that has an ex tension.
Other than these.
Other than these, then we will not.
Allow it.
So these are the only extensions that we are going to allow.
And here I have here a simple statement that checks whether the extension exists in this array or not.
If it exists, then I'm going to say here, if it doesn't exist, I'm going to say here, not an image.
I'm going to say here.
This is not an image.
And you should here say applied.
Remember the of what okay is zero because here we will not apply the the image or the file else if the
if if the extension exists, it means that this is an image.
And here we can move that image to the.
We can move the.
We can move the image to the target file, which is this which is the target directory and the file
name attached to it.
And finally, we can here display a success message file uploaded successfully.
And we also need here we also need to use a we need to change the upload key valuable to one because
at this point the file has been uploaded successfully.
So this is a great script that's going to check the type of the file.
This is very important.
Whenever you are up, whenever you are developing, developing and uploading the feature in your website
or web application, you need to check the file extension before accepting that file.